Quick-start guide: AutoChannelROIbot for beginners on Mac
This is written for someone who’s never touched Python and just wants the bot to work.

1. One-time setup on Mac
Step 1: Check if Python is already installed
Open Terminal

Click the Spotlight icon (🔍) in the top-right

Type Terminal and press Enter

In Terminal, type:

bash
python3 --version
If you see something like Python 3.10.x → you’re good.
If you see “command not found” → you need to install Python.

Step 2: Install Python (if needed)
Go to:
https://www.python.org/downloads/

Download the latest Python 3 for macOS.

Open the downloaded .pkg file and go through the installer (just click Continue / Install).

When it’s done, reopen Terminal and run:

bash
python3 --version
You should now see a version number.

Step 3: Get the bot folder onto the Mac
Your friend needs the folder:

AutoChannelROIBot  
containing:

bot.py

ui.py

README.md

requirements.txt

Put that whole folder somewhere simple, like:

Documents/GenesisRepoBots/AutoChannelROIBot

Step 4: Open the bot folder in Terminal
In Finder, go to the folder:

Documents/GenesisRepoBots/AutoChannelROIBot

Right-click inside the folder background and choose:
“New Terminal at Folder”  
(If that option doesn’t appear, do this instead:)

Open Terminal

Type cd (with a space)

Drag the AutoChannelROIBot folder into the Terminal window

Press Enter

You should now be “inside” the bot folder in Terminal.

2. How to run the bot (UI version)
From inside the AutoChannelROIBot folder in Terminal, run:

bash
python3 ui.py
What should happen:

A small splash window appears:

“THE GENESIS SYSTEM”

“AutoChannelROIbot”

After ~2 seconds, the main window appears:

Title: AutoChannelROIbot

A few text fields:

Channel Niche

Main Goal

Videos per Week

Biggest Struggle

Two buttons:

Generate Channel ROI Profile

Open Bot Folder

If that window appears, the bot is working.

3. First-time use: what to actually do
Step 1: Fill in the fields
In the main window:

Channel Niche:  
e.g. AI dog videos, Travel vlogs, Motivational shorts

Main Goal:  
e.g. Get more views and subscribers, Grow to 1,000 subs, Improve watch time

Videos per Week:  
e.g. 3, 5, 7

Biggest Struggle:  
e.g. Consistency, Titles and thumbnails, Knowing what to post

Step 2: Click “Generate Channel ROI Profile”
The bot creates a file in the same folder called:

text
channel_profile.json
This file is your channel profile:
it stores your niche, goals, cadence, and pain points.

Step 3: (Optional) Click “Open Bot Folder”
This opens the folder so you can see channel_profile.json.

You don’t need to open the JSON file manually, but you can if you’re curious.

4. What the first 48 hours should look like
Think of the first 2 days as “getting clarity and patterns”, not “fixing everything.”

Day 1 — Setup + Clarity
Goal: Get your channel profile right.

Run the bot UI (python3 ui.py).

Fill in the fields honestly:

What you actually post now

What you actually want

How often you realistically can post

What you’re actually struggling with

Click Generate Channel ROI Profile.

Re-run the UI and tweak the answers if needed until the profile feels accurate.

End of Day 1:
You have a clean, written definition of your channel and goals.

Day 2 — Use the profile to guide decisions
Even before advanced features are added, the profile is useful:

Open channel_profile.json (you can use TextEdit or VS Code).

Read it like a mirror of your channel:

Does the niche match what you’re actually posting?

Does your current upload schedule match the “Videos per Week”?

Are your recent videos aligned with your stated goal?

Make one small change based on the profile:

Adjust your upload cadence

Tighten your niche (e.g., “AI dogs” instead of “random AI stuff”)

Decide on a simple series (e.g., “7 days of X”)

End of Day 2:
You’ve used the profile to make one concrete decision about your channel.

5. The next 2 weeks: how to use this as a beginner
Until we add more automation around planning and SEO, here’s how a beginner can still get real value.

Week 1 — Align your behavior with your profile
Goal: Make your actions match your stated strategy.

Re-run the UI at the start of the week

Confirm niche, goals, cadence, struggle.

Plan your week using the profile:

If cadence is 3 videos/week, pick the exact days (e.g., Mon/Wed/Fri).

If your goal is more subs, focus on:

Clear value in the first 3 seconds

Strong titles and thumbnails

After each upload, ask:

Did this video match my niche?

Did this video serve my main goal?

Did I stick to my cadence?

You’re using the bot as a strategy anchor—a reminder of what you’re actually trying to do.

Week 2 — Start tracking patterns
Goal: Use the profile as a lens to interpret performance.

At the end of each day you upload, jot down:

Video title

Topic

Views after 24 hours

Click-through rate (CTR)

Average view duration or retention (if you know how to find it)

At the end of the week, compare:

Which videos matched your niche most clearly?

Which videos aligned best with your stated goal?

Which ones performed better?

Re-open channel_profile.json and ask:

Do I need to narrow my niche?

Do I need to adjust my cadence?

Is my main goal actually different from what I wrote?

Update the profile via the UI if your answers change.

By the end of Week 2:
You’ve used the bot to:

Define your channel

Align your behavior

Start noticing patterns

6. How this evolves (what you can tell him is coming next)
You can frame it like this for a beginner:

“Right now, this bot gives you a clear channel profile so you stop guessing who you are and what you’re doing. Next, it will start using that profile to:

Generate weekly content plans

Suggest better titles and descriptions

Help you interpret your analytics
So the more honest and accurate your profile is now, the more powerful the next version will be.”